Hello everyone! In this lesson, we will work exclusively in blueprint. Let's create a basic animation blueprint
for our character. Let's consider a one-dimensional blend space and learn how to change the animation of a character
depending on its speed. First, let's increase a little the size of the platform on which
our character moves, so that it is more convenient for us to test his movements. Select the floor object
on the stage and press the delete key. Go to the modes window, click on the geometry category and select the
box geometry. The brush type is the simplest editable geometry. For example, we can change the position of the vertices
at the box , adjust various parameters, then turn it into a static mesh.
We reset the world location to 0, because we pulled the box to an arbitrary place on our scene.
Next, we change the dimensions in the brush settings of our box. We set arbitrary large values ​​for x and y:
for example, 5000 and let the thickness be 20. Start the game. We now have enough space to
move the character. For animation testing, this will be very convenient. Let's take a look at the speed of the character.
Open the character's blueprint. In the component tree, select character movement, as we remember, this
component is responsible for the movement of the character. The component has many different property constants
that affect the movement of the character. We are now interested in a constant called MaxWalkSpeed.
It determines the maximum speed of movement of the character in the world.
This value is measured in units per second. Units are also known as centimeters - this is a unit of measure for distance in UE.
The default is 600. Let's quickly check through the blueprint
that this is the case. Open up the event graph. Let's use the function that each actor has.
It's called GetVelocity. This function returns the current speed of the actor along each of the axes: xy z.
The return type is FVector. We are interested in the length of this vector. To get
this value, let's use a function of the FVector class called VectorLength and the Tick function of our
actor, let's display the value of this value. To do this, there is a PrintString node that
displays a message on the game screen. In fact, this is a call to the AddOnScreenDebugMessage function.
We connect VectorLength to PrintString. We have created an automatic node for converting float to string. Compile.
We launch the project. We see that when the character stands still, our speed is zero, and if
we move, the speed increases to 600. Let's change the value of the constant
to some large value, for example, 1600, to check that everything works for us.
Our character now moves very quickly. Its speed changes from 0 to 1600.
Let's return the value to 600, let it be the default and delete all our debug output.
We figured out the speed.
Let's now proceed directly to the creation of animation blueprints. Create a folder called animations.
There are several ways to create an animated blueprint. The first one is to find the
skeletal mesh of our character. Right-click create -> new blueprint and the second way is in the content
browser, in the animations folder, right-click and select animation -> animation blueprint.
In the pop-up window, we need to select the skeleton of our character and click on the ok button.
We call this asset ABP_BaseCharacter.
We open. Before us is a special editor called the animation blueprint editor. We will set up all the animation logic
in it. This editor has two graphs: the first of them is the event graph.
In fact, it is the same as in the classic blueprint. Here we will handle various
animation events. It also has an update function, in fact it is the Tick function of the blueprint.
The second graph is an animation graph, which is responsible for processing all animations, the final animation
is sent to the output pose node , which will be presented in the current frame. On the right we have the asset browser open,
where all the animations related to this skeleton are located. If you do not see any windows, you
can open them. In the main menu in the window. Find them here.
Find our run forward animation in the asset browser and drag it onto the anim graph.
We connect this animation to the output pose. In the window with a preview animation, our running pose began to be shown.
Specify the animation blueprint data in the mesh of our character, for this, in the animtaion section, change the
animation asset to animation blueprint and select our asset in the combobox animation class.
Compile. We launch our game. Visually, nothing has changed for us, but we have customized
our animation through an animated blueprint. Now we can work with this further.
In the asset browser, double-click on our run forward animation. The animation editor opens.
It also has an asset browser on the right. We can view all the animations we have.
So what is our current task? We have an idle animation. The character is at rest, does not move.
And there is a running animation that we are already using run forward.
We want to make it so that at speed 0 the idle animation is displayed,
at speed 600 - run forward and there is a smooth transition between them when the speed changes.
To do this, we will create an additional asset called blend space. Select BlendSpace1D from the menu.
Select our skeleton in the window. We name the asset BS_Locomotion.
Save and open the asset.
This asset is needed for the animation blend, that is, to smoothly change one animation to another.
It interpolates states and outputs intermediate values ​​between animation poses.
Below we see a special layout, in which animation blending will take place.
Our axis is now called None and has a minimum value of 0 and a maximum value of 100. Go to the right to the asset details window.
Go to the axis settings category and change the name of our axis from None to velocity.
In the layout below, the name of the axis immediately changed to velocity. The minimum value along the velocity axis
is also 0, and the maximum will be 600. This corresponds to our maximum movement speed in the motion component.
So we have configured our axis.
Let's drag the animations we need into layout. Drag the idle animation to the section where the
velocity is 0, and drag the run forward animation to the 600 section. We can drag the animation to any
available section, or add another one. We have no limitation that there should be only 2.
Moreover, we can change the Number Of Grid Division value in asset details.
That is, change the number of animations that we can add. We currently have 5 animations available.
The green circle is the preview assistant. By changing its position, we can
see what the final animation pose will be at a specific speed value.
All. We are done with creating our blend space. Go back to the animated blueprint.
We throw our blend space onto the animation graph and connect it to the output pose.
Compile. It remains for us to transfer the current speed of the actor to this animation BS_Locomotion node.
To do this, create a new variable in the animation blueprint. We call it velocity.
Change the type in details to float.
We pull it out onto the graph and connect it to the blend space. The default value for our variable is 0.
Let's change this value to 100. Our character starts to smoothly start,
if we change it to 500, then he is already running. Last step. It is necessary to assign
this variable to the current velocity of the actor. To do this, go back to the event graph.
We will set this variable in the update function, that is, in fact, in the Tick of this blueprint.
The event graph already contains a node called TryGetPawn.
It returns a reference to the current instance pawn. In our case, this is BaseCharacter.
Let's use the function that we considered at the beginning of the lesson GetVelocity. Every actor has it.
We calculate the length of our velocity vector.
We assign this value to the created velocity variable.
Compile. We save and see what we got.
Speed ​​0 - idle animation, click on the arrow. Our character starts to run and stops
if we release the arrow. That's all. We have dealt with the blend space, created an animated blueprint.
In subsequent lessons, we will continue to work with this animated blueprint.